=pod

=head1 NAME

topstat - simple statics for stdin with top-like interface

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  data | topstat --metric count --metric average 
  data | topstat --metric --metric average --format '%10.4f'

=head1 DESCRIPTION

topstat reads lines from stdin, generates statitics from these lines and
present them in a top-like interface. Every line must contain a number
as first element, the rest of the line is interpreted as identifier for
that line. Number and identifier are split by consecutive whitespace.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4 

=item -m, --metric METRIC

Selects what metrics to display and in what order. Possible values
are I<sum>, I<average>, I<count>, I<last-seen>, I<decay>, I<min> and
I<max>. Defaults to I<count>.

=item -i, --interval INTERVAL

Delay between screen updates in seconds. Default to 2.

=item -d, --delimiter DELIMITER

Use DELIMITER instead of consecutive whitespace as delimiter of fields.

=item -1, --batch

Write output to stdout instead of displaying it with curses.

=item -u, --update-file FILE

Write output every I<INTERVAL> seconds to I<FILE>. The file is
overwritten, so you can just read it to get the current state of the
data. This does not interfere with displaying the data on stdout or
with curses.

=item -l, --lines LINES

Specifies the number of lines to write to stdout or to the file given
by I<--update-file>. This does not change the number of lines shown by
the curses backend, which will always try to fill the screen.

=head1 INSTALLATION

It is possible to install this script via perl normal install routines. 

  perl Build.PL
  ./Build
  ./Build install

Or you can just copy the script somewhere in your path and install the
dependencies via your normal package system. For example, in Debian:

  apt-get install libcurses-perl

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2014 Mario Domgoergen L<E<lt>mario@domgoergen.comE<gt>>

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

